V 1.5.1 - Jenny Wren
Small and not especially pretty, but brightens up the Spring with sweet song.

This is mostly another one of those incremental improvement releases.

MIDI-learn has been extended so that you can now learn aftertouch, the pitch wheel (to full 14 bit resolution) and most recently NRPNs. A number of hardware devices send these for greater control depth and to provide more than the usual number of controls. Also, there is a 'Settings' option to always open the editing window on a sucessful 'learn'.

Main volume now has interpolation so there is no zipper noise, and part volume and pan have better interpolation for the same reason.

LFO frequency and depth are now fully dynamic.

Four common MIDI controls now have a window (right click on 'Controllers'). This is so that they can be be MIDI-learned. The reason you might want to, is for linking them to aftertouch - a particular benefit to users of wind controllers.

A number of actions are now 'soft' in that a fast fade is performed, then the synth is disabled, the action takes place, and the synth is re-enabled.
These are 'Stop' and 'Reset' as well as loading Vectors and Patchsets.

The 'Solo' feature now ignores a value of zero if it is in 'Loop' mode. This means you can use a simple on/off switch control to step through the parts only when it gets the 'on' value.

Visually there have been a lot of improvements. Main window key shortcuts work correctly! General layouts have been further harmonised. The AddSynth voice list window is now fully in sync with the voice windows themselves.

More tooltips give real values on hovering. Some also give small graphic representations.

We have a new splash screen, which also doesn't block anymore. There is now also a 'Util' directory which has the tools, instructions and examples to enable you to create a personalised splash.

There is more information for making custom builds.

Both CLI and GUI have been further isolated from the audio thread, and there is now intelligent buffering of incoming MIDI where needed.

To build yoshimi fetch the tarball from either:
    http://sourceforge.net/projects/yoshimi
Or:
    https://github.com/Yoshimi/yoshimi

Our user list archive is at:
    https://www.freelists.org/archive/yoshimi
