This enables you to seem to instantly change just one part only to a specific channel while alowing others that were on that channel to only accept a note-off. The command takes two forms.

See "Solo.txt" for GUI use.

In the first form all 16 normally accessible parts will be changed to channel 1 but only one at a time is active, the others have their channel number set as 17 to only accept note-off.

The value of this is that, as you are not actually switching parts on and off, there are no clicks and no messed up note release tails, yet with a pretty standard MIDI controller you can instantly switch between 16 totally different sounds *while* *actually* *playing*.

The second form is more directed to post recording automation where (using all 64 parts) you have a base channel number and a group of 4 parts that reference it. Again, only one part at a time is active, the others have their channel number set to only accept note-off.

However you can have up to four parts responding to just one channel, and it can be any of the 16 available MIDI channels.

You will, of course, need to load up and activate all your wanted instruments patches - either manually or via root/bank & program change commands in your MIDI file.

You can only have one of these two forms at a time, which can be set in the GUI "Yoshimi->Settings->MIDI" or from both the CLI and via shortform NRPNs. You use these to assign a specific CC as the switch.

NRPN setup.

For the first form (single row) set MSB to 65 and LSB to the controller you want to use to perform the actual changes. Sending values 0 to 15 on that controller will enable that numered part for recieving new notes while all the others will only see note-offs.

An extra twist is that if you have any vectors defined these will behave correctly when that particular base channel is selected.

There is a variation of this whereby sending any value (except zero) on the designated controller will simply increment the active part number, looping round back through zero when it reaches 16. For this you need the MSB to be set to 67.


For the column based form set MSB to 66 and LSB to the controller you want to use.

So, if your part number is, say 35, your base channel is 3. Using your controller to send this will set part 35 to receive channel 3 and parts 3, 19 & 51 to unavailable channel 19, so they will only accept note off commands from channel 3.

Although this only gives you a selection of 4 parts, this is *per* *channel* so if your processor is powerful enough you can utilise all 64 possible parts.

Current settings are stored with patch sets.

Note:
NRPN numbers start from zero, but will be displayed on the GUI or in the CLI starting from 1.
