
NRPN MSB is CC 99, and LSB is CC 98

A new concept is shortform NRPNs. This is where instead of the NRPN setting up for data entry of values, the NRPN is of itself the entire command. With a suitable sequencer like Rosegarden, you start with a two byte MSB/LSB value, then only need to enter a single byte LSB to change the setting.

There is only one pair defined so far and these are for silent channel switching of parts.

In the first form all 16 normally accessible parts will be changed to channel 1 but only one at a time is active, the others have their channel number set to only accept note-off.

The value of this is that, as you are not actually switching parts on and off, there are no clicks and no messed up note release tails, yet with a pretty standard MIDI controller you can instantly switch between 16 totally different sounds *while* *actually* *playing*.

The other form is more directed to post recording automation where (using all 64 parts) you have a base channel number and a group of 4 parts that reference it. Again, only one part at a time is active, the others have their channel number set to only accept note-off.

Yet you can have up to four parts responding to just one channel, and it can be any of the 16 available MIDI channels.

You will, of course, need to load up and activate all your wanted instruments patches - either manually or via root/bank & program change commands in your MIDI file.

For the first form (single row) set MSB to 65 and LSB to the controller you want to use to perform the actual changes. Sending values 0 to 15 on that controller will enable that part for recieving new notes while all the others will only see note-offs


For the column based form set MSB to 66 and LSB to the controller you want to use.

So, if your part number is, say 35, your base channel is 3. Uising your controller to send this will set part 35 to receive channel 3 and parts 3, 19 & 51 to 19, so they will only accept note off commands from channel 3.

Although this only gives you a selection of 4 parts, this is *per* *channel* so if your processor is powerful enough you can utilise all 64 possible parts.

You can only have one of these two forms at a time and later when you want to disable the feature, just send MSB 65 and LSB 127.

You never need to be concerned with the data values.

Note:
NRPN channel numbers start from zero, but will be displayed on the GUI starting from 1.
