Version 2.3.0 - Painted Bunting
A very colourful singer.

The most obvious development here is the changes made to the Graphics UI. Link buttons are now quite distinct from action ones with respect to both the colour and outline. Also Learnable buttons and switches now have a different colour and text font - people were unaware of many that were learnable.

You now have clear indication when control knobs and sliders are moved from their default positions. Knob pointers will change from black to red, and sliders now all have a green 'core', which will also turn red when not at the default position.

Less immediately obvious is the new tab in 'Settings' that opens a 'Themes' section. Initially you will find two themes available, the 'classic' one (which is what you will see when first running version 2.3.0) and a rather extreme 'demo' example.

These files are plain text and laid out to be particulalry easy to edit. The 'classic' one is actually a reference file auto-generated by Yoshimi. Rather than changing this you should make a renamed copy and alter that. Almost every element can be editied, and changes take place immediately the theme is selected/reselected. There are Import and Export options available so you can easily export a theme, change it in any text editor then import it again, optionally with a different name.

Under the hood we've found a way of making many controls save and restore very high resolution settings. This is done in a way that is transparently forward and backwards compatible. Old files will be picked up at their original resolution and losslessly converted. When resaved these will still be readable by older Yoshimi versions at their native resolution, while versions 2.3.0 and later will enjoy the full range.

Deep dives like this tend to shake out a few bugs, and this has been the case here. A right mouse button click on a knob or slider should set it to the default value, but a few controls had been missed - they are now included. Also, effects were only being set to the default for the first preset type. These are now set to the currently selected preset's default.

Finally, all the documentation has been revised, including the Advanced Reference Manual.


Yoshimi source code is available from either:
https://sourceforge.net/projects/yoshimi
Or:
https://github.com/Yoshimi/yoshimi

Full build instructions are in 'INSTALL'.

Our list archive is at:
https://www.freelists.org/archive/yoshimi
To post, email to:
yoshimi@freelists.org
