1.6.1

A rather unusual new feature is a 'forced' exit. This, as it suggests, is immediate and does no double check. It is available from the CLI, GUI, and MIDI. It also gives a return value of 16 instead of the usual zero. The purpose of this is so that with a cooperative environment it can shut down the whole computer - particuarly useful at the end of a live gig.

If using ALSA MIDI, there is now a search mode where Yoshimi will connect to every readable source it can find. This is also directed at live use, where you might be working with an unknown keyboard. Alternatively, the 'Fixed' source setting can now have several comma separated entries when you want to always connect to a specific range of sources.

There has been a correction to Scales note and frequency allocation terminology. Instead of calling it the 'A' note, we now refer to the 'reference' note. We also identify the selected note number by both it's value, and the actual note it represents. If it is anything other than 69 it should not be referred to as 'A'... because it isn't! So 69 is A4, 60 is C4 (which some people would want to set to a frequency of 256Hz). The settings are sent to the log, and the GUI has tooltips to explain the structure.

The mixer panel format can now be changed from Yoshimi->Settings. This is to allow for use on very low resolution screens and window managers that try to be clever and centre windows that are taller than the screen, chopping off both the top and bottom. Exactly where 'Close' icons tend to be.

The CLI now has additional controls, particularly in banks and roots management. There are still a few missing, but not many! Also some of these have been changed for better consistency.


Other stuff.

We've had to do an update to allow for the change in the MXML API. That one came as a complete surprise :(

Quite a lot of the drawn graphics were using dots and dashes. These were virtually invisible, looking just like solid lines, but FLTKs handling of them has a significant processing overhead on machines with limited or no GPU control. These are now all solid lines.

Session/State/Config managment is now unified, and more system settings can be changed by these files as Yoshimi instances start. For this it was necessary to change the config and instance files slightly, but they are examined at startup and modified as necessary, so transparent to the user.


And finally, The Advanced User Guide has been significantly updated.
