FLTK manges window resizes itself, but not text or some user drawn graphics. Our resize code fills in these elements.

It closely follows the context idea that the rest of Yoshimi uses. The way this operates is as follows.

First of all the 33mS timer used to fetch VU metering data also sets a trigger. This is then recognised by the normal update code in "MiscGui" which passes the request on to "MasterUI", and then clears the trigger. This procedure ensures that there will be at least 33mS between redraws, thus reducing processor loading.

When "MasterUI" first gets the call it passes it on to all the other top level windows in sequence, but *only* if their size has actually changed. It then passes the call uinconditionally to the other main areas, PartUI and BankUI, and finally runs through its own objects.

Part and Bank will themselves portion out calls to subsections depending on whether they can be dealt with directly, or have to be passed further down the stack. For an extreme example, the Amplitude Freemode window in Addsynth Voice has to unconditionally receive this call. It's complete route is:

miscGui->Master->Part->PartEdit->AddGlobal->AddVoice->AddEnvelope

If it is visible, and it's size has changed it will then perform the actual text font resizes, then mark iself as 'seen'. Font sizes are calculated from the ratio of the current window size against the default size, and the font itself multiplied by this scale factor. Fonts are defined as integers so will visibly step up and down in size. Other drawn elements will change smoothly.

Usually only one window at a time will be changing, so apart from the tests made on the way, there is little extra work.

Currently no FLTK alert windows resize. We will be replacing them with our own code.

Completed
    Console
    Config
    Vector
    PadSynth
    Subsyth
    Addsynth
        Global
        Voice
        Voice List
    Oscilgen
    Resonance
    LFOs
    Envelopes
    Filters
        formant window
    Microtonal
    Bank
    Midilearn
    Virkeyboard
    Presets
    Part
        instrumenteditwindow
        instrumentkitlist
        ctlmidi
        ctlwindow
        aftertouchcontrol
        partfx
    Main
        master window
        message window
        mixer window
        sys/ins window
        parameters
        about


In progress
    nothing!


Not started
    {crickets}
