By Will Godfrey

Will started to get involved with Yoshimi not long after Cal forked it from Zyn. As well as comments on the forum, Will also had a lot of email correspondence with him, and got to know him quite well.
He was originally a C programmer, and made it clear he really didn't like C++, and was particularly frustrated with FLTK and Fluid. Look at any Fluid built code with an ordinary text program and it's pretty obvious why!

Cal did try to tidy things up and as far as possible unify the coding style, but as we know didn't have time to complete it. Also towards the end of his time he was making unfortunate mistakes.

When Jeremy took over quite a lot of code cleaning up and improvement was done, but this was from a number of different people and the coding style fragmented again.

As is well known, Will was talked into taking over rather than have Yoshimi abandoned. Will had a lot of help from others at first, but after a while (with notable exceptions) a lot of people dropped out. Will did the best he could!

Kristian joined in about the time of V 1.1.0

Andrew started the LV2 code with V 1.3.0, which Will had no understanding of at all (didn't even know what it was).

Harry did the initial work in the bank structure with V 1.3.2 and Andrew took this further.

Rob dropped in occasionally round about the time of V 1.3.8

After this, Will was mostly on his own with others dropping in from time to time.
Andrew dropped out of sight round about the time of V1.3.9

Round about 2015 Will met up with Paul Nasca in London and had a long and very interesting chat. One thing that Paul made clear was that Zyn was not written as C++ (as some people thought) but as C with classes, Which probably explains some of the strange quirks!

Hermann came on board somewhere between V 1.5.8 and 1.5.9 and amongst other things refactored the PRNG code, making it better mated to Yoshimi and future proofing it.

Notably Rob and Hermann were invoved with V1.5.10

Amongst other things, Will has tried to restore a unified coding style as described in Yoshimi_Policies.txt

Since then most of the notable coding has been done by Hermann, Kristian and Will.
